This repo stores Banucicek Kandemir Kilincceker's master thesis codes. The master thesis was carried on Gebze Technical University.

Please see abstract of the thesis below.

Title:WEAKLY-SUPERVISED MACHINE LEARNING METHOD FOR TURKISH SIGN LANGUAGE RECOGNITION

Abstract:Turkish Sign Language (TİD) recognition is an artificial intelligence problem within the scope of computer vision. Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) are used to solve this problem. In this thesis, the YSA model for the classification of TID is proposed. A TID-specific dataset is required to train this classification model. This dataset requires to contain all variations. Considering the dataset required for this problem to be solved, it is obvious that this is an expensive problem. In this thesis, it is aimed to facilitate the process of obtaining the dataset with a semi-supervised machine learning method and then modeling. In this context, the thesis consists of two stages. First, it acquires a dataset, which contains 512 different word classes. It uses online platforms as a source. After this stage, a total of 6 sub-datasets, balanced and unbalanced, are formed for different class numbers based on frequency. The class numbers of these datasets are 5, 10, and 15, respectively. Then, the training phase is initiated. Two different models are used in the training phase. First, due to the ability of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) to process spatial information, features are extracted from the obtained images using ESA. After the feature extraction process, the most suitable training network is selected from the CNN-based model, and vectors are constructed following the Long-Short-Term Memory (LSTM)-based model. With this new dataset, a simple LSTM-based model is built, and retraining is carried out. At the end of the second training phase, the model network with the highest accuracy and the smallest loss value is selected and a prediction is made. All of the above-mentioned processes and prediction processes are repeated for 6 separate sub-datasets. The same model structure is used in all training processes. At the end of the training process, although the success rate for both types of data is mostly above 90%, better results are observed in balanced datasets. It is observed that the success rate increased as the number of classes increased.
